hi everyone and welcome back to the
China vintage hour brought to you by
teacup media laws Lamont Gummer II here
with more recollections from your
favorite 19th century condescending
imperialists mr. Robert fortune we're
still in the 1840s 1844 to be exact
fortune will be heading back to old
Blighty the following year I'm still
reading from his first book three years
wanderings in the northern provinces of
China this was published in 1847 if you
are at all interested in the subject of
tea this episode is going to offer you
some degree of satisfaction it's the
subject of tea that propelled Robert
fortune to fame and fortune
no pun intended his ticket to China was
his expertise in the fields of botany
and horticulture these past few episodes
he's been traipsing around Hong Kong
Guangdong Fujian and Chu Jung merely a
year after the prying open of the treaty
ports of Canton shall man food joke
Shanghai in Ningbo
he initially went to China at the
expense of the London horticultural
society and all the while as he's been
going from one adventure to another he's
been sending back dozens of specimens of
plants and insects
today's narrative today's narrative
offers up fortunes observations and
stories about tea visiting the city of
su Jo and sailing down the mean river
and Fujian to the mouth at food Cho he
begins this episode by telling all he
knows about the subject of tea as a
plant
how to grow it the steps to process it
and how to turn it into an ingredient
for use as a beverage all this knowledge
he picked up along the way traveling
through the tea countries of China in
fortunes day and indeed going back to
the great Linnaeus himself in the
century previous to fortune it was held
that green tea and black tea came from
two different species of the tea plant
fortune became the first European to
discover that in fact no matter green or
black tea
the leaf is the same it's all in the
processing and you'll get to hear
fortune step-by-step descriptions of how
the Chinese did that and if you listen
to the internationally award-winning ten
part history of t-series from the CHP
you'll know that what Fortune observed
took the Chinese a couple thousand years
to figure out if you're interested how
the tea business was conducted in 19th
century China your chances here fortune
offers some insight to Thai how they did
it back then you'll also see that our F
discovers that Chinese merchants were
adding a poisonous food color to the
dried leaves to give it a nice bright
green look that they figured the euros
and American skis both preferred fortune
refers to this as a blooming color he
travels to Suzhou the Venice of China
and gets to groove on the beauty of that
fabled City though he finds plenty to
turn his nose up at as in the past
episodes you'll notice his fortune
either alone or with companions
improvises his way past each obstacle
that he's up against and you hear it
straight from RF himself Western people
were not terribly popular with the old
hundred sir names like Admiral Chung huh
who made those voyages during the Ming
Dynasty Yamla Emperor's reign fortune
sailed right past the woman or five
tiger gate that stands near the entrance
to the mean river in food chow
one thing about fortune he's not shy
about letting it all hang out as far as
what he felt about the people of Fujian
not a fan he states that the population
of food Jo and the surrounding areas at
that time was about half a million today
foo Jo is about seven million souls who
called the place home anyway we're
getting close to the end of fortunes
debut visit to China let's continue on
with his observations in China from over
170 years ago there are a few subjects
connected with the vegetable kingdom
which have a
tract at such a large share of public
notice as the tea plant of China its
cultivation on the Chinese hills the
particular species are variety which
produces the black and green teas of
Commerce and the method of preparing the
leaves have always been objects of
peculiar interest the jealousy of the
Chinese government in former times
prevented foreigners from visiting any
of the districts where tea is cultivated
and the information derived from the
Chinese merchants even scanty as it was
was not to be dependent upon and hence
we find our English authors
contradicting each other some asserting
that black and green teas are produced
by the same variety and that the
difference in color is the result of a
different mode of preparation while
others say that the black teas are
produced from the plant called by
botanists tiabo hay and the green from
tea Avera deaths both of which we have
had for many years in our gardens in
england during my travels in china since
the last war I've had frequent
opportunities of inspecting some
extensive tea districts in the black and
green tea countries of Canton Fujian and
should young and the result of these
observations is now laid before the
reader it will prove that even those who
have had the best means of judging have
been deceived and at the greater part of
the black and green teas which are
brought yearly from China to Europe in
America are obtained from the same
species or variety namely from the tea
of Erebus dried specimens of this plant
were prepared in the districts I have
named by myself and are now in the
herbarium of the Horticultural Society
of London so that there can be no longer
any doubts upon the subject in various
parts of the Canton province where I had
an opportunity of seeing tea cultivated
the species proved to be the TIA bo hay
or what is commonly called the black tea
plant in the green tea districts of the
north I allude more particularly to the
province of Judge young I never met with
a single plant of this species which is
so common in the fields and gardens near
Canton all the plants in the green tea
country near Ning ball on the islands of
the jo Shan archipelago and in every
part of the province which I had an
opportunity of visiting proved without
exception to be chiovera disks
200 miles further to the northwest in
the province of Jiangnan and only a
short distance from the tea hills in
that quarter I also found in garden was
the same species of tea thus far my
actual observation exactly verified the
opinions I had formed on the subject
before I left England viz that the black
teas were prepared from the tiabo hay
and the green from Tia Vera dis when I
left the north on my way to the city of
Phu Joe and the river mean in the
province of Fujian I had no doubt that I
should find the tea Hills there covered
with the other species TIA bo hay from
which we generally suppose the black
teas are made and this was the more
likely to be the case as this species
actually derives its specific name from
the Bo hey Hills in this province great
was my surprise to find all the plants
of the tea hills near food Joe exactly
the same as those in the green tea
districts of the north here were then
green tea plantations and the black tea
hills and not a single plant of the
tiabo hay to be seen moreover at the
time of my visit the natives were busily
employed in the manufacture of black
teas although the specific differences
of the tea plants were well known to me
I was so much surprised and I may add
amused at this discovery that I procured
a set of specimens for the herbarium and
also dug up a living plant which I took
northward to judge young on comparing it
with those which grow on the green tea
hills no difference whatever was
observed it appears therefore that the
black and green teas of the northern
districts of China those districts in
which the greater part of the teas for
the foreign markets are made are both
produced from the same variety and that
that variety is the tea of Erebus or
what is commonly called the green tea
plant on the other hand those black and
green teas which are manufactured in
considerable quantities in the vicinity
of Canton are obtained from the TIA bo
hay or black tea and really when we give
the subject our unprejudiced
consideration there seems nothing
surprising in this state of things
moreover we must bear in mind that our
former opinions were formed upon
statements made to us by the Chinese at
Canton who will say anything which suits
their purpose and rarely give
themselves any trouble to ascertain
whether the information they communicate
to be true or false the soil of the tea
districts is of course much richer in
the northern provinces than it is in
Guangdong and Fujian and jaejeong it is
rich sandy loam tea shrubs will not
succeed well unless they have a rich
soil to grow in the continual gathering
of their leaves is very detrimental to
their health and in fact ultimately
kills them hence a principal object with
the grower is to keep his bushes and as
robust health as possible and this
cannot be done if the soil is poor the
tea plantations in the north of China
are always situated on the lower and
most fertile sides of the hills and
never on the lowlands the shrubs are
planted in rows about four feet apart
and about the same distance between each
row and look at a distance like little
shrubberies of evergreens the farms are
small each consisting of from one to
four or five acres indeed every cottager
has his own little tea garden the
produce of which supplies the wants of
his family and the surplus brings them
in a few dollars which are spent on the
other necessaries of life the same
system is practiced in everything
relating to Chinese agriculture the
cotton silk and rice farms are generally
all small and managed upon the same plan
there were a few sights more pleasing
than a Chinese family in the interior
engaged in gathering the tea leaves or
indeed in any of their agricultural
pursuits there was the old man it may be
the grandfather or even the
great-grandfather patriarch like
directing his descendants many of whom
are in their youth and prime while
others are in their childhood in the
labors of the field he stands in the
midst of them bow down with age but to
the honour of the Chinese as a nation
he has always looked up to by all with
pride and affection and his old age and
gray hairs are honored revered and loved
when after the labors of the day are
over they return to their humble and
happy homes their fare consists chiefly
of rice fish and vegetables which they
enjoy with great zest and are happy and
contented and I really believed there
was no country in the world where the
agricultural population are better off
than they
are in the north of China labor with
them is pleasure for its fruits are
eaten by themselves and the rod of the
oppressor is unfelt and unknown in the
green tea districts of Judge Jiang near
Ning Bal the first crop of leaves is
generally gathered about the middle of
April this consists of the young leaf
buds just as they begin to unfold and
form a fine and delicate kind of young
heissen which is held in high estimate
by the nato's and has generally sent
about in small quantities as presents to
their friends it is a scarce and
expensive article and the picking of the
leaves in such a young state does
considerable injury to the tea
plantations the summer rains however
which fall copiously about this season
moisten the earth and air and if the
plants are young and vigorous they soon
push out fresh leaves in a fortnight or
three weeks from the time of first
picking or about the beginning of May
the shrubs are again covered with fresh
leaves and are ready for the second
gathering which is in fact the most
important of the season the third and
last gathering which takes place as soon
as the new leaves are formed produces a
very inferior kind of tea which I
believe is rarely sent out of the
district the mode of gathering and
preparing the leaves of the tea plants
is extremely simple we have been so long
accustomed to magnify and mystify
everything relating to the Chinese that
in all their arts and manufacturers we
expect to find some peculiar and
out-of-the-way practice when the fact is
that many operations in China are more
simple in their character than in most
other parts of the world to rightly
understand the process of rolling and
drying the leaves which I'm about to
describe it must be borne in mind that
the grand object is to expel the
moisture and at the same time to retain
as much as possible of the aromatic and
other desirable secretions of the
species the system adopted to attain
this end is as simple as it is
efficacious in the harvest seasons the
natives are seen in little family groups
on the side of every hill when the
weather is dry engaged in gathering the
tea leaves they do not seem so
particular as I imagined they
then in this operation but strip the
leaves off rapidly and promiscuously and
throw them all into brown baskets made
for the purpose out of split bamboo or
rattan in the beginning of May when the
principal gathering takes place the
young seed vessels are about as large as
Peas these are also stripped off and
dried with the leaves
it is these seed vessels which we often
see in our tea and which have some
slight resemblance to young capers when
a sufficient quantity of leaves are
gathered they are carried home to the
cottage or barn where the operation of
drying is performed the Chinese cottages
amongst the tea Hills are simple and
rude in their construction and remind
one of what we used to see in Scotland
in former years when the cow and pig
lived and fed in the same house with the
peasant Scottish cottages however even
in these days were always better
furnished and more comfortable than
those of the Chinese at the present time
nevertheless it is in these poor
cottages that a large proportion of the
teas with their high sounding names are
first prepared barns sheds and other
outhouses are also frequently used for
the same purpose particularly about the
temples and monasteries the drying pans
and furnaces in these places are very
simply constructed the pans which are a
fire and are made as thin as possible
are browned and shallow and in fact are
the same are nearly the same which the
natives have in general used for cooking
their rice a row of these are built into
brickwork and chunin having a flue
constructed below them with the grading
or a rather fireplace at one end and the
chimney or at least some hole to allow
the smoke to escape at the other the
quantity of leaves from a sieve or
basket are now thrown into the pans and
turned over shaken up and kept in motion
by men and women stationed there for
this purpose the leaves are immediately
affected by the heat they begin to crack
and become quite moist with the vapor or
SAP which they give out on the
application of the heat this part of the
process lasts about five minutes and
which time the leaves lose their
crispness and become soft and pliable
they are then taken out of the pans and
thrown upon a table the upper part which
is made of split pieces of bamboo
three or four persons now surround the
table and the heap of tea leaves is
divided into as many parcels each
individual taking as many as he can hold
in his hands and the rolling process
commences I cannot give a better idea of
this operation than by comparing it to a
baker working and rolling his dough both
hands are used in the very same way the
object being to express the sap and
moisture and at the same time to twist
the leaves two or three times during the
operation the little bundles of rolled
leaves are held up and shaken out to pon
the table and are that again taken up
and Preston rolled as before this part
of the process also lasts about five
minutes during which time a large
portion of green juice has been
expressed and may be seen finding its
way down between the interspecies of the
bamboos the leaves being now pressed
twisted and curled do not occupy a
quarter of the space which they did
before the operation when the rolling
process is completed the leaves are
removed from the table and shaken out
for the last time thinly upon a large
sort of screen also made out of split
pieces of bamboo and are exposed to the
action of the air the best days for this
purpose are those which are dry and
cloudy with very little Sun the object
being to expel the moisture in the most
gentle manner and at the same time to
allow the leaves to remain as soft and
pliable as possible when the Sun is
clear and powerful the moisture
evaporates too rapidly and the leaves
are left crisp coarse and not in the
proper state to undergo the remaining
part of the process there was no state
at time for this exposure as much
depends upon the nature of the weather
and the convenience of the work people
sometimes I've seen them go on with the
remaining part of the operation without
at all exposing the leaves to the air
having in this manner got rid of a
certain part of the superfluous moisture
the leaves which are now soft and pliant
are again thrown into the drying pans
and the second heating commences again
one individual takes his post at the
furnace and keeps up a slow and steady
fire others resume their places at the
different drying pans one at each
and commend stirring and throwing up the
leaves so that they must all have an
equal share of the fire and none get
scorched or burned the process of drying
this goes on slowly and regularly this
part of the operation soon becomes more
easy for the leaves as they part with
their moisture twist and curl and
consequently take up much less room than
they do at first and mix together more
readily the tea leaves being now rather
too hot for the hand a small and neat
brush made of bamboo is used instead of
the fingers for stirring them up from
the bottom of the pan during this
operation the men and women who are
employed never leave their respective
stations one keeps slowly feeding the
fire and the others continually stirring
the leaves no very exact degree of
temperature is attempted to be kept up
for they do not use the thermometer but
a slow and steady fire is quite
sufficient that is the pan is made and
kept so hot that I could not place my
hand upon it for a second of time in
order to get a correct idea of the time
required to complete this second part of
the process I referred to my watch on
different occasions and at different tea
farms and always found that it occupied
about an hour that is from the time the
leaves were put into the pan after
exposure to the air until they were
perfectly dry when the operation of
drying is going on largely some of the
pans in the range are used for finishing
the process while others and the hottest
ones are heating and moistening the
leaves before they are squeezed and
rolled
thus a considerable number of hands can
be employed at once and the work goes on
rapidly without loss of time or heat the
latter of which is of some importance in
a country so ill provide it with fuel
the tea prepared in the manner which I
have just described is greenish in color
and have a most excellent quality it is
called by the Chinese and the province
of judge young child Ching or the tea
which is dried in the pan to distinguish
it from the home Ching or that kind
which is dried and flat bamboo baskets
over a slow fire of charcoal this latter
kind the home Ching is prepared in the
following manner
the first process
up to the period of rolling and exposure
to the air is exactly the same as that
which I have just described but instead
of being put into the drying pan for the
second heating like the child Ching the
home Ching is taken out into flat
baskets which are placed over tubs
containing charcoal and ashes the
charcoal when ignited burned slowly and
sends out a mild and gentle heat indeed
the only difference between the two T's
consists in the mode of firing the
latter being dried less and more slowly
than the former the home Ching is not so
green in color as the Chou Ching and I
believe has rarely been exported after
the drying is completed the T is picked
sifted divided into different kinds and
qualities and prepared for packing this
is a part of the operation which
requires great care more especially when
the T is intended for the foreign market
is the value of the sample depends much
upon the smallness and evenness of the
leaf as well as upon its other good
qualities in those districts where the
t's are manufactured solely for
exportation the natives are very
particular in the rolling process and
hence the t's from these districts are
better divided and more even although I
should doubt their being really better
in quality than they are in the eastern
parts of the province of Judge Yong I
have stated that the plans grown in the
district of judge Yong produce green
teas but it must not be supposed that
they are the green teas which are
exported to England the leaf has a much
more natural color and has little or
none of what we call the beautiful bloom
upon it which is so much admired in
Europe and America there is now no doubt
that all these blooming green teas which
are manufactured at Canton are dyed with
Prussian blue and gypsum to suit the
taste of the foreign barbarians
indeed the process may be seen any day
during the season by those who will give
themselves the trouble to seek after it
it is very likely that the same
ingredients are also used in dyeing the
northern green teas for the foreign
market of this however I am not quite
certain the Chinese never use these
deities themselves and I certainly think
their taste in this respect is more
correct than ours and is not to be
supposed that the
I used can produced any very bad effects
upon the consumer for headless Bend the
case that would have been discovered
before now but if entirely harmless are
inert its being so must be ascribed to
the very small quantity which is
employed in the manufacture when the T's
are ready for sale the large tea
merchants are their servants come out
from the principal towns of the district
and take up their quarters and all the
little Inns or eating houses which are
very numerous in every part of the
country they also bring coolies loaded
with the copper coin of the country
which they pay for their purchases as
soon as the merchants are known to have
arrived in the district the tea growers
bring their produce for inspection and
sale these little farmers or their
laborers may now be seen hastening along
the different roads each with two
baskets or chests slung over his
shoulder on his bamboo pole when they
arrive at the merchants abiding place
the baskets are opened before him and
the quality of the tea inspected if he
is pleased with its appearance and smell
and the parties agree as to the price
the tea is weighed the money paid down
and the grower gets his strings of
copper money slung over his shoulder and
returns to his farm but should the price
offered appear too low the baskets are
immediately shouldered with the greatest
apparent independence and carried away
to some opposition merchants it however
sometimes happens that a merchant makes
a contract with some of the tea growers
before the season commences in which
case the price is arranged in the usual
way and generally apart paid in advance
this I understand is frequently the case
at Canton when a foreign resident wishes
to secure any particular kind of tea
after the teas are bought up in the
district where they are grown
they are conveyed to the most convenient
town where they are assorted and
properly packed for the European and
American markets such as the system of
green tea culture and manufacture which
came under my observation in the
province of Judge young the black tea
districts of Fujian which I visited are
managed in the same way as those of
judge young I have already said that the
species of plant which produces the
black teas near food Joe is the very
same as that found in the green tea
districts of the north being further
south and of course
hotter climate the tea plant of Fujian
is generally grown at a high elevation
amongst the hills at the risk of some
little repetition I will insert an
account of my visit to the tea hills of
Fujian every cottager or small farmer
has two or three patches of tea shrubs
growing on the hillsides which are
generally planted and kept in order by
the members of his own family when the
gathering season arrives the cottage
doors are locked and all proceed to the
hills with their baskets and commence
plucking the leaves this business of
course only goes on during fine days
when the leaves are dry the first
gathering takes place just when the leaf
buds begin to unfold themselves in early
spring the tea is scarce and of a very
superior quality being in fact the same
or nearly the same as that which is made
from the young leaves in the green tea
district the second gathering produces
the principal crop of the season the
third crop is coarse and inferior when
the leaves are brought home from the
hills they are first of all emptied out
into large flat bamboos sibs and
providing the day is not too bright are
exposed in the open air to try off any
superfluous moisture when their moisture
has evaporated convenient portions of
the leaves are brought in and thrown
into a round flat iron pan such as the
Chinese use for boiling their rice and
are exposed to the heat of a gentle fire
which is lighted below them as soon as
this heat reaches them they give out a
large quantity of moisture with a
crackling noise and they soon become
soft and pliant the person who attends
to them stirs them about with his hands
and in about five minutes takes them out
and puts in a fresh supply the heated
leaves are emptied out on a large round
and flat bamboo sieve which is placed
upon a table at a convenient height from
the ground and the process of rolling
commences three or four persons take a
portion of the heated leaves and begin
to squeeze and roll them in the manner
which I have already described this goes
on for a minute or two when each person
takes his portion and examines the
effects which have already been produced
it is then shaken well out upon the
table after which it is gathered up and
the operation of rolling and squeeze
goes on as before this is repeated three
or four times and then the whole is
shaken well out on another large flat
bamboo sieve in such a manner as to
spread it thinly upon it up to this
stage of the process all the leaves have
been subjected to the same treatment but
the tea in this district is now divided
into two classes each of which is
treated in a peculiar manner they are
called in the language of the district
lucha and hom cha the former seems to be
a kind of mixture of black and green and
I should imagine it is only made for the
use of the natives themselves the latter
is our common black tea the lucha is
prepared in the following manner the
leaves after being rolled and squeezed
are shaken out thinly and exposed to the
air to dry great care is taken not to
expose them in this state too much
bright sunshine and hence a fine dry day
when the Sun is partially obscured by
thin clouds has always preferred for
this part of the operation after being
exposed for an hour or two or even
longer as the case may be for this
depends upon a variety of circumstances
such as the dryness of the air or the
convenience of the work people they are
brought within doors and the drying
process commences the flat rice pan in
which they were first heated is so
constructed that it can be taken out at
the pleasure of the cottager it is now
removed and a bamboo sieve exactly the
same size is put into its place and
filled with the leaves a very slow and
steady fire of wood or charcoal is now
kept up and the remains of the moisture
in the leaves is thus gradually and
slowly evaporated after a few minutes
the sieve has lifted out and placed in
one of a larger size with a closer
bottom the leaves are then well shaken
up and turned over and any of the
smaller tea which falls through the open
sieve during the operation is thus
collected in the under one and carefully
saved both saves are now placed over the
flue and the leaves carefully watched
and turned frequently for about an hour
when the tea is considered properly
fired sometimes if the day is fine it
has exposed a little while
to the Sun before it is packed away the
Hong cha or our common black tea is
prepared rather differently in the first
place the natives seem more particular
in the rolling process especially when
it is for the foreign market although
the operation is performed much in the
same way after heating and rolling the
leaves are shaken out on large screens
and subjected to the action of the open
air the natives and this as in all other
cases taking care not to expose them to
a bright and burning Sun this is a most
important part of the manufacture the
black tea is left in this state
sometimes for two or three days before
it is fired which doubtless is one cause
why the colour of this tea is so much
darker than those teas which are
prepared from the same plants and
quickly dried after being exposed for a
sufficient length of time to the action
of the air
the leaves are taken in for the purpose
of firing instead however of being
heated in baskets like the other kind
this is thrown at once into the pan an
old and experienced person takes his
place at the furnace and keeps up a slow
and steady fire while it is the duty of
the younger branches of the family to
keep the leaves in the pan and continual
motion and prevent them from being
burned this is done by means of little
hand brushes made from the prolific
bamboo the outer flinty part being split
for this purpose the tea prepared in
this manner soon becomes of a dark color
it was quite different in appearance
from the Lu Jia after it has been
sufficiently dried it has of course two
undergrowth the other operations of
sifting picking and dividing before it
is fit to be packed up for the foreign
market from hence it appears that the
black tea is rendered darker in color
first by being longer exposed to the air
and a soft and moist state and secondly
by being subjected to a greater degree
of fire heat with regard to the green
teas there could be no doubt that those
used by the Chinese themselves are of
the genuine color which they acquired in
the drying and that those blooming kinds
prepare to suit our depraved tastes are
one in all died moreover in conclusion I
may repeat what I've already proved that
the black and green teas of the north
are produced from the same species the
Tia Vera deaths and that the true Canton
tees are manufactured from the leaves of
the Tia bow Hey
it therefore follows that the black tees
can be and in fact are made from both
species and with regard to the green as
it is the result of a die the Chinese I
doubt not could substitute for that
color either red or yellow should our
tastes change and lead us to prefer more
glaring tints there are several
different kinds of scented flowers which
are grown in particular districts for
the purpose of mixing with and perfuming
the tea the city of su Jo in its general
features is much the same as the other
cities in the north but is evidently the
seat of luxury and wealth and has none
of those signs of dilapidation and decay
which once seized and such towns as Ning
fall a noble Canal as wide as the River
Thames at Richmond runs parallel with
the city walls and acts as a moat as
well as for commercial purposes the same
canal is carried through arches into the
city where it ramifies in all directions
sometimes narrow and dirty and at other
places expanding into lakes of
considerable beauty thus enabling the
inhabitants to convey their merchandise
to their houses from the most distant
parts of the country junks and boats of
all sizes are plying on this wide and
beautiful canal and the whole place has
a cheerful and flourishing aspect which
one does not so often see in the other
towns in China
if we accept Canton and Shanghai the
walls and ramparts are high in an
excellent repair having considerable
resemblance to those of Ning ball but
much better order the east wall along
the side of which I went all the way is
not more than a mile in length but the
north and south are much longer thus
making the city a parallelogram that
part of the city near the east gate by
which I entered is anything but splendid
the streets are narrow and dirty and the
population seems of the lowest order but
towards the West the buildings and
streets are much finer the shops are
large and everything denotes this to be
the rich in aristocratic part of the
town the city gates seem to be well
guarded with Chinese soldiers and all
the streets and lanes inside are
intersected at intervals with gate
which are closed at nine or ten o'clock
at night the governor-general of the
province resides here and keeps those
under his control in excellent order the
ladies here are considered by the
Chinese to be the most beautiful in the
country and judging from the specimens
which I had an opportunity of seeing
they certainly deserve their high
character their dresses are of the
richest material made in a style at once
graceful and elegant and the only faults
I could find with them were their small
deformed feet and the mode they have of
painting or whitening their faces with a
kind of powder made for this purpose but
what seemed false and my eyes are
beauties and those of a and
hence the prevalence of these customs
sue Jo seems to be the great tempore ium
of the central provinces of China for
which it is peculiarly well fitted by
its situation the trade of Ningbo
hangzhou shanghai and many other towns
on the south Ching Chung Nanking and
even Peking itself on the north all
centers here and all these places are
connected either by the Grand Canal or
by the hundreds of canals of lesser note
which ramify over all this part of the
Empire Shanghai from its favorable
position as regards sue Jo will
doubtless become one day a place of vast
importance and a commercial point of
view both as regards Europe in America
I remain for several days in the city in
its neighborhood when having done all
that was possible under the
circumstances I set out on my way back
to Shanghai when I arrived I was obliged
to go on shore in my Chinese dress as
the English one had been stolen by my
midnight visitor the disguise however
was so complete but I was not recognised
by a single individual although I walked
up the street where I was well known and
even my friend mr. Mackenzie with whom I
was staying did not know me for the
first few minutes after I sat down in
his room in the town of Shanghai as well
as in many other large Chinese towns
there are a number of public hot water
bathing establishments which must be of
great importance as regards the health
and comfort of the natives I will
describe one which I passed daily during
my residence in Shanghai there are two
outer rooms used for undressing and
dressing the first and largest is for
the poorer classes the second for those
who consider themselves more respect
double and who wished to be more private
as you enter the largest of these rooms
a placard which is hung near the door
and forms you what the charges are and a
man stands there to receive the money on
entrance arranged in rows down the
middle and round the sides of both rooms
are a number of small boxes or lockers
furnished with lock and key into which
the visitors put their clothes and where
they can make sure of finding them when
they return from the bathing room which
is entered by a small door at the
farther end of the building and is about
30 feet long and 20 feet wide the water
occupying the whole space except a
narrow path round the sides the water is
from one foot to 18 inches deep and the
sides of the bath are lined with marble
slabs from which the bathers step into
the water and on which they sit and wash
themselves the furnace is placed on the
outside and the flues are carried below
the center of the bath in the afternoon
and evening this establishment is
crowded with visitors and on entering
the bathroom the first impression is
almost insupportable the hot steam or
vapor meets you at the door filling the
eyes and ears and causing perspiration
to run from every part of the body
it almost darkens the place and the
seen in this imperfect light
with their brown skins and long tails
sporting amongst the water render the
scene a most ludicrous one to an
Englishman those visitors who use the
common room pay only six copper cash the
others pay eighteen but they have in
addition a cup of tea and a pipe of
tobacco from the proprietors I may
mention that 100 copper cash amount to
about four and a half D of our money so
that the first-class enjoy a hot water
bath for about one farthing and the
other a bath a private room a cup of tea
and a pipe of tobacco for something less
than one penny when I finished my
business in Shanghai I left that city
and sailed for fou Jo on the river mean
fou Jo is the capital of the province of
Fujian near the celebrated bow hay hills
at about halfway between Jo shine and
Canton and approaching the entrance to
the mean we anchored under the leave
some islands named white dogs for the
purpose of procuring a fisherman who
could pilot the vessel into the river as
the entrance is rather
difficult for a stranger having been
until very lately but imperfectly
surveyed going to the shore for that
purpose and the ship's boat we found a
small fishing village inhabited by men
and boys most of whom hit a piratical
and forbidding appearance it seems that
these people only come here at certain
periods of the year to fish and when the
season has passed they moved to more
comfortable quarters on the mainland no
women are ever allowed to inhabit the
island having picked out the most
weather-beaten man we could find we
asked him if he knew the passage to the
mean and if he could take a vessel in
which drew three fathoms of water
he immediately answered in the
affirmative but will be wanted him to
come on board he altered his mind and
hesitated probably because he had not
confidence in us or it might be he was
frightened at the consequences not
knowing how his conduct would be viewed
by the authorities mr. Shaw captain
Freeman and myself now held a conference
as to what was to be done a ship and a
valuable cargo were at stake the
numerous and dangerous sand banks near
the mouth of the river were visible and
as the man only refused us his service
through fear and ignorance we concluded
that as necessity has no law there could
be no great harm and taking him against
as well
we accordingly pulled alongside his
little junk and took him off to the ship
where he very soon got over all his
fears the Chinese are certainly a
strange and unaccountable race never in
my life did I witness greater apathy
than was shown by this boat's crew when
we took them off to the ship their
companions too for there were several
boats in the Little Bay scarcely even
looked at us or manifested the least
surprised when they saw our men board
the boat get her anchor up and hoist her
sail the next morning our pilot got the
ship underway and took us into the river
mean by a passage not marked in our
charts he evinced the most perfect
acquaintance with the depth of water at
every part and at last
anchored us and safety abreast of a
small temple a few miles from mouth of
the river before we came to the most
dangerous point where we had to pass
between two sand banks the captain very
quietly informed him that if he made any
mistake and got the ship aground he
should have his tail cut off a
punishment very nearly the greatest
which can be in
elected on a when told he
shrugged up his shoulders gave a sly
look and said very well we shall see
by-and-by the Anchorage being reached in
safety the old man thought it was now
his time for a joke and turning
triumphantly around with his tail in one
of his hands exclaimed now what about
the tail is it to be caught off or not
or are you satisfied the passage by
which we entered the river is called by
the natives the woman or the five tiger
gate and here we saw a most singular
rock or island which is cleft as work
into five pyramids and is much revered
by the Chinese sailor in fact he seems
to look upon it as representing the
guise of the ocean and he fails not to
offer up his thanks and his offerings
every time he passes by it and returning
from sea the Chinese are often taunted
but their indifference to the religion
which they profess and yet the earnest
in devout manner in which they burn
incense and worship at their holy places
would put to the blush many of the
professor's of a holier and purer faith
the scenery at the mouth of the mean and
towards Foucault is striking and
beautiful the river itself varies much
in width and depth according to the
district through which it flows near its
mouth and at some parts were the country
between it and the hills is flat it is
not less than a mile and width but at
other parts where the mountains come
almost to the water's edge the river is
narrow deep and rapid there are two or
three such places between the mouth of
the mean and the city of Foucault the
whole of this district is hilly many of
the mountains being at least three
thousand feet high and at this season of
the year when thunderstorms were almost
of daily occurrence the effects produced
by them amongst these mountains were
grand and sublime it is evident that the
Chinese greatly dreaded our visiting
this place during the war I observed
that forts have been built on all the
most commanding positions on the sides
of the river but most of them were now
without guns and had already become
dilapidated the little town and fortress
of mean gang a few miles up the river is
beautifully situated on a hill sloping
down to the water and the position is so
strong by nature that if manned with
English troops it could defend the pass
against the strongest force a few miles
below the
the river is blocked up almost all the
way across with stones and old junks
which are covered at high water I
believe the intended plan of defense was
to wreck all our vessels on this barrier
and destroy our men by batteries erected
nerrit on the banks of the river are
numerous temples or joss houses built in
the most romantic and beautiful
situations about nine miles below food
cho a pretty little pagoda stands on an
island on the left bank of the river
near this is the anchorage for large
vessels which it would not be prudent to
take up to the town the city and suburbs
of futo stand in an opening amongst the
hills about 20 miles from the mouth of
the mean the river runs through the
suburbs which are connected by the
celebrated bridge called the One Show or
Marriott's of Ages which was always said
to consist of 100 arches it is not an
arched bridge at all but it is
nevertheless a wonderful structure being
about 2,000 feet in length and having 50
strong pillars of stone with large slabs
of granite reaching from the one to the
other and forming the top of the bridge
during the rains the river rushes
through these divisions with awful
rapidity and as the bridge is evidently
stood for many ages it is a proof of the
substantial manner in which it was
originally built leaving the ship at the
mouth of the mean mr. Shah kept in
Freeman and myself started in a native
boat to go up to the city when we were
getting into the boat our old friend the
pilot who by this time they had become
quite at home amongst us came and begged
us to give him a passage as far up as
the first time we were to pass on the
way we enquired why he did not go back
again to his fishing at the white dog
island his reply was I should get robbed
by pirates of all the money you have
given me for pilotage I must first make
sure of it by depositing it in the hands
of a friend of mine in the town after
that is done I shall return to the
island we were nearly two days and
getting up to the city owing to the
rapidity of the stream caused by the
late heavy rains we landed near the
bridge already noticed and immediately
inquired for the house of the English
Consul who we were informed lived in a
temple situated within the city and
about three miles from the
place as nearly the whole of the streets
in the suburbs were underwater at the
time in some parts the depth of four
feet it was impossible to walk this
distance is nearly the whole of the
streets and the suburbs were underwater
at this time in some parts the depth of
four feet it was impossible to walk this
distance nor was it necessary to make
the attempt for chairman surrounded us
in great numbers and words determined on
putting us into their cheers as a London
conductor is to have passengers for his
omnibus we willingly yield it to their
solicitations and got into chairs and
set off for the consular residence the
people here had seen but few foreigners
and we're particularly impertinent and
annoying hundreds followed us and
crowded around the chairs Kwon Yong
kwan-yuen I their turn for foreigners
was ringing in our ears from all sides
and frequently other appellations of
much worse signification our Chinese
servants who walked by our side were
attacked and reviled for having any
connection with us in one of the streets
the water was so deep that I was obliged
to stand up on the seat of the chair and
even then it breached my feet here the
crowd became very abusive and commenced
throwing water over us at first our
servants bore this treatment pretty well
but their patience was at last exhausted
and they turned upon the assailants the
scene was now both amusing and
disagreeable luckily I happened to be a
little in advance and was therefore
pretty well out of the me lake but
captain Freeman came in first full share
of it and was completely soaked through
and we got within the city walls we were
not molested further owing I suppose to
the greater strength of the police the
city is walled and fortified upon the
same plan as Ning ba and Shanghai and is
at least eight or nine miles in
circumference having as usual east west
north and south gates at various points
on the walls as well as above the gates
guard houses are erected each containing
guns some of which according to the
writings on them were cast about the
commencement of the last war a small
area between the south and north gates
is not built upon but the greater part
of the space within the walls is densely
covered with houses there are two rather
handsome pagodas and some small Hills
which temples are built and where a good
view of the town and suburbs may be
obtained on one of these hills the
British consul has his residence the
streets in all Chinese cities have much
the same appearance some are a little
wider than others and have better and
more attractive shops but by far the
greater part of them are narrow and
dirty and Phu Joe certainly forms no
exception to the general rule a large
trade appears to be carried on here in
copper judging from the number of shops
filled with manufactured articles of
that metal particularly of gongs of
which I observed an immense number of
all sizes a great quantity of iron is
manufactured here and wire drawing is
carried on extensively the great export
trade of the port however is in wood
which has floated down the mean in large
quantities and covers many acres in the
suburbs near the riverside hundreds of
junks from Xiamen Ningbo Chaput and some
even from as far north as the province
of Shandong are constantly employed in
this trade the wood is chiefly a sort of
common pine employed in the building of
houses and it was generally cut into
lengths suited to that purpose before it
is shipped good planks a fine hardwood
can also be had in any quantity at this
place the wood junks are loaded with
great skill a great part of their cargo
being lashed to their sides thus making
them about three times their ordinary
width banking is carried on to a greater
extent in Fujio than in the other towns
which I visited paper notes are a common
medium of exchange which the people have
the greatest confidence preferring them
to dollars or cash some of the notes are
as low as four hundred cash about
eighteen pence English money others are
for very large sums the people here are
generally much cleaner in their habits
and appear to be a more active race than
those in the northern towns in fact they
approach more nearly to the natives of
Canton and to any other in these
respects I was much surprised to find
them consuming beef and even milk in
considerable quantities articles which
are never used by the inhabitants of the
other districts where I've been indeed
everywhere else the Chinese were wanted
to express their is
when they saw the English using such
articles of food the ladies of food show
are particularly fond of flowers
artificial as well as natural for the
decoration of their hair the rustic
cottage beauty employs the more large
gaudy such as the red hibiscus while
they refine damsels prefer the Jasmine
tuberose and others of that description
artificial flowers however are more in
use than natural ones the population of
Fujio has been estimated at about half a
million and I have no doubt that if the
suburbs and numerous villages and the
vicinity be taken into account the
number is not overstated up to the time
when I left China little or nothing had
been done here in the way of trade and I
cannot help thinking that its advantages
in this respect have been greatly
overrated
it is never likely to be a place of as
great importance to England as the more
northerly port of Shanghai and for this
very simple reason the physical nature
of the country is against it the whole
of the surrounding region is mountainous
the rivers are rapid and in some places
shallow and are often liable to rain
floods there are consequently many
impediments in the way of a free
transmission of goods into the interior
of the country foo Jo was supposed to
possess great advantages owing to its
being near the bow hay or black tea
district and it was thought at one time
that it might form the great Emporium
for the export of this article to Europe
and America this opinion however has
hitherto proved fallacious and I believe
it is now ascertained that the black
teas can be brought more readily to
Shanghai earning bought into foo Jo
especially since the bow haiti's have
sunk in estimation and other districts
to the northward having taken the place
of the bow hay hills are now furnishing
the black teas of Commerce in addition
to all these disadvantages the natives
seem a lawless and turbulent race having
all the characteristics of those in the
canton province and like them being
inveterate in their hatred of foreigners
and full of conceit as to their own
importance and power several very
serious disturbances have taken place at
the port since it was open to the
British after paying our visit to the
English consul
we returned to the suburbs to look out
for a house where we could put up during
our stay when we got back to the river
we found all our luggage and servants
already safely lodged in the house of a
person who had been ordered by the
mandarins to Lodge us and look after us
we were glad to get indoors from the
insulting crowd and were consequently
not very particular as to quarters we
soon found however that we were very
strictly watched and that we could not
move anywhere without the fact being
communicated to the mandarins well that
is our China vintage our passage for
today not a bad one I hope you are all
now properly educated on the finer
points of growing processing and
packaging tea in fortunes next to books
which we'll get to at another time he
actually returns to China on a secret
mission for the British East India
Company to get a much closer look at tea
snip some cuttings and steal as many
seeds as he could carry away
surreptitiously and forward everything
to India
I hope fortunes blow-by-blow explanation
wasn't too overpowering regarding the
fine points of manufacturing tea if you
didn't know it already I guess this
gives you a nice appreciation of how
laborious the process is later on
someone at the Honourable British East
India Company will read this book three
years wanderings in the northern
provinces of China and after learning of
fortunes expertise and reputation it
will lead directly to his next mission
when he goes back on his next China trip
he will carry out one of the great acts
of international espionage and will get
away with it too so we have more Robert
fortune next time and maybe after I ring
his next book dry of the best passages
we'll move on to someone else and a
different part of China so please come
back again next time for maybe an
episode or two more of our favorite
condescending imperialist British friend
he had quite an adventure it's hard
enough in 2017 to do some of the things
he did let alone in the days right after
the opium war
this is Lazlo Montgomery bidding you a
fond farewell we're coming to you always
or almost always from the
drought-stricken city of los angeles
california we're coming to you of course
from teacup media man they got some
fantastic shows on that channel
cast Chinese sangs podcast and so much
more to come go check them all out and
of course do consider joining me next
time perhaps for another enjoyable and
relaxing edition of the China vintage
hour